Today I worked on finishing up the maps to be embedded in the Green Crew website as well as adding to some of the data analysis functions. Today was also our last day with Alina :(

Throughout the morning and the early afternoon I finished up getting as far as I could regarding making the shade canopy maps to be embedded into the Green Crew Website. I think I finally decided on a design to be used for the maps. I think I will leave the tree markers so that users can see the overall spread of all the trees over the whole area, since if we remove these markers and only have the buffers, the scaling makes it so that it is nearly impossible to see all of the trees together due to the scale that you have to zoom out to. So the way that I have the maps set up as is small markers that do not change in size representing each tree, with the color depending on the species of trees. Then as you zoom in closer you can see the shade canopies of each tree, which I have decided to leave as a green color for all trees. This approach achieves the best of both worlds. The markers as a layer allow the user to see the placement of all the trees even if they zoom farther out, while the buffers allow the user to see an accurately sized tree canopy that changes to-scale with the rest of the map as the user zooms in or out.
The only problem I ran into today was that I ran out of credits when making the last map of all the trees. I have emailed Brian asking for more credits so that I can finish the last of making the map, and hopefully I will be able to receive these credits soon so that I can finish up the maps for good. Another issue that I need to look into is getting the data in ArcGIS to automatically update with the google spreadsheet. I have asked Brian about this, but it does not seem like this is an easily fixable solution. I will look further into ways to work around this issue next week, as the preliminary searching that I did today did not yield anything useful. I am happy with the progress being made with the maps, and hopefully we will be able to implement this map very soon.

Today we also got to see Alina present during the Upward Bound presentations! Alina did a great job and I am sad to see her go, but I hope she had fun during her internship and learned a lot about computer science!

I also spent some time this afternoon cleaning up the data analysis tools that Alina and I worked on together. Some of the functions did not have comments, so I added a few comments and fixed some syntax. I also implemented some additions that we did not have time to work on together. Alina and I decided that some of the data would be better viewed as a bar graph instead of a pie chart, so I implemented these changes. I also got the outputs to display in descending order for the tree species analysis tool for ease of viewing since before the numbers were kind of jumbled and hard to read. Sorting by descending order actually ended up being more difficult than I anticipated, since I had to convert the dictionary to an array, apply a sort function to the array, then convert the array back into a dictionary. Next week I will look into what might be useful information regarding a Biodiversity index. I think that depending on the complexity of the Biodiversity index formula, it may only take a couple lines of code to calculate the biodiversity from our data and print this value in the spreadsheet for Green Crew to use!
I also plan to finally start working on more of my individual project regarding displaying the benefits information in a more accessible way. While running the calculation should be pretty easy since they are just simple conversions, I need to think about what the ebst way is to display these conversions and this new data, since the existing results spreadsheets are already pretty packed with information. I am thinking of either putting this information in a new spreadsheet tab, in a row below the existing raw numbers, or in the same cell as the existing raw numbers. I will consult with team members to see what they think might be best, but I am currently leaning towards putting them in a new tab.

Next week I will finish up with the data analysis tools and start on my individual project. I think that by next week, I will definitely be done developing the maps, so we can embed those into the website ASAP. We also need to work on a poster for the poster event that Prof. Dodds mentioned we would be going to at USC's Huntington Beach campus.
