Today is our last day, so I finished up the Tree Benefit Analysis user guide and polished up the ArcGIS user guide.

This morning I finished writing up the Tree Benefit analysis user guide, with help from Christina in helping to explain the Biodiversity calculations, since she implemented this tool. We finished writing parts 6-8 (see Tuesday 7/23 post for details on what each part contains). I also finished polishing up the Tree Benefit Analysis user guide and the ArcGIS user guide and pushed them to a new github folder after lunch.
With the user guides done hopefully we can help future developers be as productive as possible so that they have records of what we have accomplished this year and directions that they may be able to expand the project in the future or resolve problems that we ran into.

I think that writing up this user guide, especially after all our poster presentations, has helped me step through the project again with a more big-picture perspective of what we have done this summer, whereas when we are working on the code it is easy to get caught up in the small bugs and problems that we run into.

Today at 3:30 we had our final meeting with Nicole to set up the triggers from Prof. Medero's account and talk about our tree benefit analysis tool.
When we got back from our meeting, we transferred the tree benefit analysis code and formatting onto the live document from our copy. Using information that Christina and I had already written, I put together a brief guide about how to use our tools more for a user perspective than a developer perspective. During our meeting we thought about deleting the static maps, but since I don't have the method used to create these maps, I didn't feel comfortable deleting them. Instead, I have put the shade canopy map at the top and will let Sustainable Claremont decide if they would like to remove the static maps.

Even after joining this project a little bit late, I feel like accomplished a lot and got a lot out of this research position that I can apply in future opportunities. :)
