(This post is a day late since yesterday's meeting ran a little long).
Yesterday I spent most of my time working with Alina to finish up our analysis tools for preferred contact method and for tree distance. Between helping Alina I spent some time exploring ArcGIS maps. The rest of the afternoon was spent setting up our tools at the Sustainable Claremont office.

In the morning, Alina and I first worked on debugging the function we had written yesterday that analyzed the distribution of tree directions. Some problems that we fixed were that the code was originally still counting the crossed out trees, and trees with 'N/A' directions were still being included as part of the total number of trees analyzed, so our percentages were consistently adding up to less than 100%. With a few new if statements and variables we were able to fix these problems so that the code makes the correct calculations. I was also able to successfully implement pie charts that automatically pop up for the data when we run the data analysis. 
Alina then worked mostly independently on writing the analysis tools for preferred contact method and tree distance since this code was similar to the function that we already wrote for direction distribution and she understood this code pretty well. Although there were some occassional questions, errors, and clarifications needed, Alina wrote these functions largely on her own.

While Alina worked on these two new analysis functions, I finished up my portion of the slides and determined where Alina's slides about spreadsheet analysis might go. I also played around with ArcGIS. One problem we have with ArcGIS currently is that according to Brian Hilton from CGU, in order to get the time slider to show up, we need to have redundant rows for each tree, which would mean our 800 line spreadsheet would multiply by however many time intervals we want to analyze, which seems less than ideal. I tried messing around with a small sample of about 40 trees to see what was possible. I tried a few different formats of spreadsheets to see what options we had for displaying the tree crown growth. So far I have no conclusive results, so I will continue working on this.

In the afternoon we went up to the Green crew office to implement the DAC tool that Christina worked on as well as the Contact messaging tool. Although I did not directly work with much of the code, it was fun to be able to show Nicole the spreadsheet analysis tool that Alina and I worked on as well as the logo we have for our app. There were some minor errors with transferring things over and some syntax, but we were largely able to transfer things over successfully!

Today I plan to work on any errors that showed up for the Contact messaging tool to the best of my ability. I also plan to continue exploring ArcGIS to see what might be the best way to format our spreadsheet. Depending on progress with the slides, I may be able to introduce some content that will help us make the tree species tool (i.e. dictionaries and for-each loops)
