Today was spent working on fixing the inconsistencies in the Ananlysis Tool for Tree Data script. Getting the numbers to be somewhat reasonable took almost all of the workday. The error ended up being that the fetching of data using XML related functions were not correctly included in the loop, so the relevant data for an attribute ended up being summed on top of data from previous attributes, which meant that the first value was correct but the following values were all too large. This error took a while to find since the code has so many different moving parts. By the end of the morning I was able to isolate that the error must be coming from one ot two functions through much copying and pasting from past versions and running tests. Eventually I was able to catch the error and apply the appropriate fixes and spent a little while checking run time to make sure the changes I had made were not affecting the runtime negatively.
During the afternoon, a meeting was set up with Sustainable Claremont in order to discuss the progress we have made so far and to ask clarifying questions. Since this meeting will occur next Tuesday, I decided to spend some time compiling some questions that I wanted to ask Nicole during the meeting, since these questions are currently fresh in my mind and I would not want to forget these questions over the weekend.
During the last part of the workday I applied some changes to the Individual Benefit portion of the code so that the format matches the Overall Benefit portion where we use a for loop to loop thorugh the attributes instead of calling the function once for each attribute. While this approach did not end up aiding the run time, I think that this makes the code more readable and less densely packed with the same function call over and over again. So now instead of 19 function calls to the same function, there is a function that gathers the information for all the attributes so that the function only needs to be called once and returns a list with all he relevant information.

Today, it felt like I spent a lot of time making not much progress, but I think that in the end we are still taking steps forward, even if they are small steps. Today I also had the training session for the Upward Bound Mentorship Position. I am looking forward to meeting Alina on Moday! On Monday I also hope to continue working on this Analysis Tool for Tree Data script, since currently the data being output does not match last year's data.

On Monday, I will compare our current code to the code last year's group to see if we somehow messed up the looping or the fetching, which would explain the problems we have been having with how the outputs of our current code don't match the outputs from last year's group. Based on how long it took me to catch the error today, I anticipate this process taking a lot of time, effort, and diligent testing. An optimistic hope is that this section of the code will be ready enough to show Nicole our progress by Tuesday.
