Today I fixed some small errors with my test version of the shade canopy map, polished up some of the slides, and wrote an intial version of the tree species analysis tool with Alina.

I started off today by working through some small bugs from the preliminary shade canopy map that I was able to get working on Friday. The pop-up on each tree had some unessential information like longitude, latitude, and our placeholder date, but I have configured the pop up so that it only holds the essential information like its canopy size and information about its benefits which are calculated from our tree benefit analysis tool using iTree. I also changed some settings on the time slider so that it has the correct time intervals where the tree canopies are accurate and there are no gaps. This is just the preliminary version since Reymon is still working on getting the buffers to work. If the method of using buffers instead of layers ends up working, then we can take steps to get the map working for all trees instead of just the 100 tree test set that I have been working on, but since I don't know if we will end up using the buffer version or the layer version, I am currently holding off on putting too much work into expanding the layer version just in case we end up using the buffer version.
Some problems that need to addressed once we decide on a method of building the map are proportional tree canopies, time dependent benefit displays, and expansion to all trees. We need to get the canopies to be to scale, since currently the canopies are preset by ArcGIS and are nowhere near being to scale. Another thing to look into is getting the benefits to be relative to what year the time slider is on. Currently, no matter where the time slider is, we are showing benefits for 40 years, but I think it might be interesting to have the 5 year benefits pop up when the time slider is at the 5 year mark, 10 year benefits at the 10 year mark, etc. Lastly, there are some issues with the current format of the spreadsheet with capital letters and slight differences in how the species are typed, which makes it hard to make a map across different projects. We currently only have a map on the ReLeaf 1.0 trees, so we need to look into having our code deal with these formatting differences to make an accurate map across projects.

I also spent some time polishing up the slides for the CS chat. It seems like the slides are essentially done (with the exception of the slides relating to the ArcGIS map). I added some detail to the more technical aspects of how the tree benefit analysis tool works. Inspired by the more technical nature of the CS Chats we saw last week, I think that more technical information is more appropriate for our audience instead of just having rather basic general information. There has also been more detail added regarding the motivation and next steps for our project. The next step is that, once the last piece of our presentation has finally been completed, we can practice our slides as a group to make sure the timing and the overall flow is working.

I spent most of the afternoon working with Alina on writing the tree species analysis tool. We ran into fewer problem than I expected, so we have made much more progress today than I had originally anticipated! We have an accurately running and relatively efficient version of the code working and giving up results, which is much farther along than I had originally anticipated being today. We worked with for-each loops to get through the tree species and dealt with the large amount of tree species by storing the species and their counts in dictionaries. We also made the choice not to display tree species that had a count of 0 in order to improve the run-time. 
I have a few ideas for tomorrow or Wednesday of how to make the tool more user friendly and working even more effectively. We have been displaying our results in a pie chart, since the other variables we have been analyzing have had only a few categories and reported in percentages, so a pie chart made the most sense. However, since there are so many tree species, I think we may want to display our results in a bar graph for this particular instance for ease of viewing. After looking at the results, I think it also may be helpful to display our table from highest percentage to lowerst percentage, since they are currently a little jumbled, and this makes it hard to read and interpret the numbers. Sorting the table would again improve the ease of viewing, even though it is not strictly necessary. Lastly, I think it could be interesting to calculate biodiversity if we can find a formula online or even a biodiversity calculator online. This could provide useful information and would avoid the step of manual calculation. 

Tomorrow, depending on the progress regarding the buffer method of making the shade map, I may start workig on some of the aforementioned problems regarding the shade canopy map. If there is no notable progress, then I may spend some more time thinking about how to expand the tree benefit analysis tool, and maybe set up a meeting with Prof. Medero to talk about the ideas I have brainstormed. I also hope to work with Alina to get the tree species tool to work in a more user-friendly way. On Wednesday, by which time all the slides will hopefully be done, we can practice presenting our CS chat as a group. Otherwise, we may just need to practice the parts that are done. 
