Today I mostly worked on the infographic for the July Fourth Sustainable Claremont stand, but I also got some smaller tasks started this morning.

This morning I spent a little while compiling some basic notes about our project's goals, motivations, achievements, next steps, and potential demonstrations in preparation for Friday's CS open house. So far I have about a page of notes, and I plan to polish up these notes tomorrow or whenever I have some downtime this week.

This morning I also emailed Jeanine from the library about an ArcGIS tutorial. I got a response right before lunch, and I was able to fill in a few more details about what we will be using ARCGIS for so that Jeanine has a better idea of what tools we will need training for in order to complete our project. Hopefully we will hear back soon so that we can set up an appointment and get started working on the map portion of the project.

I spent the rest of the morning and the whole afternoon working on the poster for the Fourth of July Sustainable Claremont stand. Prof. Medero mentioned that we don't want too much technical information on our poster for this particular event. Instead we want a colorful and eyecatching poster that has more easily digestible information so that we can talk to residents about signing up to volunteer to take care of a tree. Right now I feel that the poster is mostly finished (maybe 90% finished?). I still would like to polish it up a bit more and add things to the more bare parts of it. Currently I have 3 sections: one sections outlines how much of an effect just one tree can have which broadly covers out tree benefit analysis portion, one section outlines our messaging system which helps residents take care of their trees, and the last section shows residents how to sign up and join the project. 
I think that this information is pretty simplistic, so I don't know if I should add a little bit of technical information or if I should leave it as is. Additionally, I still need to get the link for residents to sign up, as well as get the exact numbers of how many trees and how many volunteers we have so far, as I think this is useful information for the poster.

Tomorrow I will finish up the notes for Friday's open house, and maybe our team can start brainstorming about how we want to decorate our office for open house. I also plan to finish up what I can for the fourth of July poster. Though I am not very familiar with the Contact/Messaging portion of the project, I will attempt to help work on the user guide for the Contact/Messaging system, and perhaps my lack of experience in this area of the project could even be helpful in pointing out parts that need more explanation
