7/5/19: Reymon :fireworks:
================

For the past week I have been working on ArcGIS Online to create a desirable shade canopy map that will contain a time slider to show dynamic growth. By doing so, we will be able to update and be able to replace the youtube video demonstrating the growth through static images with a dynamic map. 

Although on Monday we received a fairly detailed demonstration of how our project could be recreated on ArcGIS with Brian, the method he provided brings an issue of having to create a spreadsheet with duplicate data with a single change for every interval of time that we desire. Therefore, since we have almost 900 tree and we want 5 year intervals for 40 years, we would have a spreadsheet with around 7,200 rows of data (40 years /5 year intervals = 8 time intervals. 8 time intervals * 900 rows of trees = 7,200 total rows). Although this method does work, I decided to explore ArcGIS and work on the problem using a different method, specifically, using buffers.

Throughout this process, there have been many challenges. By using buffers, I have been working on trying to bypass the method of copy-pasting the data we have. So far, I have been able to produce favorable results in various different instances and am wondering if it is viable. In theory, I believe I can create what we are looking for through my method however I am confused on one aspect of the buffers.In one instance, when I created a buffer, all the data was transferred (which is what I want) while in another instance only the distance data field was produced. If it were to have worked, I would have been able to create separate buffer layers that I would later condense all the layers into a single condensed layer with data that we can easily modify to include separate estimates of benefits for each year, all without having to increase the amount of rows of tree data from 900 to a ridiculous size. Through my method, we would only have to add a few extra columns to include our desired intervals (which can be easily automated with quick, efficient run time since it adds similar data to a few extra columns and would not have to copy paste 900 rows a set number of times and then add a varying time interval for each set). This method would force ArcGIS to handle the replication and management of all the spreadsheet data for us and we would keep our spreadsheets clean.

Next week, I will hopefully have a meeting with Brian and work with him to see if my method is viable. Whether or not my team decides to keep my method, if it works as intended, I will be working with the map data of the desired method and working with ArcGIS Insights to develop several appealing graphs. These graphs will be targeting the general public as well as any potentially interested people by displaying data such as dollar benefits. Once I have these graphs don, I will add them to our slides as I believe they might be interesting to see for our CS Chat on Thursday. In terms of the website, the “Mapping our trees” page can easily be reformatted using ArcGIS Story Maps to be able to create a nice visual since the page and Story Maps follow the same format of scrolling down the page past several maps. For the Insight Graphs, I could probably add them to an existing page that already contains a simply graph of money saved with trees. I will be working with this plan in mind next week.
