Today I worked primarily on writing the user guide for ArcGIS. I also spent some time going over our poster for Monday's poster presentation.

Following the format that last year's group used for writing their Protocol for Future Developers, I wrote up a user guide, primarily targeted for next year's group or whoever will be working with the maps next, since I suspect that Sustainable Claremont is busy keeping up with their other tasks. I also do not know if Sustainable Claremont has access to ArcGIS accounts. The user guide is about 8 pages and details all parts of creating the ArcGIS map. I may need to cut down on the guide since it is quite long. If Sustainable Claremont does want to update the map themselves, I may need to write a separate guide with information that is more step-by-step of how to create maps and update maps and less technical information about the code and the choices we have made.
The introduction explains how we expanded on last year's group's work as well as why we have chosen to use ArcGIS Online instead on ArcGIS Desktop. It also acknowledges the need for an ArcGIS account and how our accounts this year were set up through Brian Hilton from CGU as part of the Advanced GIS Lab.
The first portion talks about the data collection and reformatting that we needed to do in order to get the tree data from Sustainable Claremont's spreadhseet tree data inputs to the ArcGIS readable format of redundant rows and tree canopy sizes. I think that the version that I have written goes over what the code does, but since Christina worked primarily on this part, I may ask her if she wants to take a look at this part and edit/add anything, just to ensure that I have not missed any crucial information.
The second portion talks about how to make a new map. I think that this part is important in the likely event that Sustainable Claremont starts new planting projects and new shade canopy maps need to be made. This portion details the process of making the tree markers as well as the shade canopies and explains the reasoning behind the choices we have made regarding layers and buffers so that future developers can pick up from where we have left off instead of having to rediscover what we have learned this summer. ArcGIS is not very intuitive, so even though some tutorials exist online, I think that it is important to outline exactly what we have done and how we have used ArcGIS in order to avoid some of the confusion that we experienced when we were first getting started.
The third portion talks about how to append data to existing maps. This would be used in the case that a certain planting project is being continued and new trees have been added. There is a definitive way to add new data to layers, which I have detailed in the user guide, but there is still no definitive way to add new data to buffers. In this section I have also detailed the ways that I have tried to add new data to buffers and why they have not worked. I suggest remaking the buffers even though this uses credits, but hopefully we will come across a better solution.
The fourth portion talks briefly about how we go from an ArcGIS map to an embeddable map either by creating a Web App and directly embedding the Web App as a singular map or by incorporating it into a Story Map. I have found that the tutorials regarding Esri Story Maps are pretty easy to follow, so this portion includes a little less detail than the previous three sections.
The last portion talks about what we have been able to accomplish this year regarding making our dynamically interactive shade canopy map as well as a link for where to view this map. It also details what problems still exist with this version of the map, primarily that it does not update automatically from the Google sheet.

Next Monday is our poster presentation at USC, which should be exciting as it is my first time being on the presenting side of a formal poster symposium session. Next week I will also revise my ArcGIS user guide to make it as readable as possible. I have yet to receive an email back from Warren about transferring ownership or allowing editing access to ArcGIS projects, but once I receive a response, I will work on transferring ownership/giving editing access of my projects to Prof. Medero so that future developers can continue working on these projects and keep them up to date.
