Today I worked on more of the Tree Benefit Analysis user guide. We also got to talk to the grad students from UCSD and learn about grad school.

I was able to finish parts 2-5 of the Tree Benefit User Guide this morning. I started on part 6, and I plan to finish writing and editing the guide tomorrow. (See Tuesday's post for details on the contents of each part).
I ended up cutting out some of the planned sections. While these sections were important parts of our work and bug-fixing process I do not know if they would contain essential information for next year's group. 

We also got to listen to Prof. Dodds talk about grad school and particularly the PhD track of grad school, which was interesting and very eye-opening.
Previously I had thought I would definitely get a Master's degree at some point but I had not considered a PhD, because of the things I had heard about the process of getting a PhD degree from other people.
I think that after this talk and after listening to the grad students, I would definitely consider going down the PhD track at this point if I can find the right fit.

Tomorrow, I plan to finish writing the user guide parts 6-8 about the distribution spreadsheet analysis tool, biodiversity tool, and next steps. I will also edit this so that it is as readable as possible.
We also have a CS lunch and a meeting with Nicole tomorrow to look forward to.

With today as our second to last day, we are wrapping up our project and getting it ready for next year's group. We also need to take down our office's decorations which is another task for tomorrow afternoon.
