6/18/19: Reymon
================

Today, I worked on understanding the source code of the i-Tree Planting website. The website seems to contain various languages and terms that I am not familiar with. From the website formatting side, it contains a couple of files with the extension of .css and javascript files that contain “Validator for Bootstrap 3.” Since I believe we will not be working with this portion of the files, I will be ignoring these files. The file that contains all the functions for the calculation of the Tree Benefits is very hard to understand since it mixes html, javascript, and jQuery all in the same file. The important lines of code are 114, 118 and 137. These lines of code reference outside urls that are calculating and retrieving the information that we desire for Tree Benefits. These urls however contain the .cfc extensions. Since I do not fully understand how to access the ColdFusion extension url, I will continue researching how the ColdFusion i-Tree url obtains and outputs its data. 

Our tree benefit code required us to utilize various parameters already set by the website and to receive data from a ColdFusion extension of the i-Tree planting website. This causes various issues in which we did not know exactly what we are obtaining from the website. Since we do not know exactly what data we are receiving from the urls, we do not know if the results we are producing are representative of the data we received. Even when we manually input the tree data into the website, we can see there is a somewhat slight difference in numbers for the manual results and our automatic results. As a result, this requires us to further investigate whether or not the website was updated and our current code still matches. 

On a side note, we will be having a meeting with Sustainable Claremont on Thursday.
