Today started with finishing yesterday's task, which took longer than I had originally anticipated. After checking that our Tree Species list matched the species list on iTree, I had to find the codes for the newly added trees. With the assistance of Prof. Medero, I was able to use Python code from last year to access the species codes of each species' scientific name so that we could put the new codes into the dictionary to match iTree's updates. From this code, I transferred the outputs into a text file, since the printed output in Terminal cut off some on the outputs. Then from this text file it was easy to look up species and their corresponding codes and update the dictionary. Although I orginally anticipated this step taking less than two hours, this process took up the entire morning and the first hour or so after lunch, but now the dictionary should be up to date with iTree.
From there, based on our observation that some trees in the spreadsheet were missing information and based on Prof. Medero's suggestions from this morning, default values for a conservative estimate seemed necessary. After some inconclusive online research about what defaults would give us the best conservative estimate, I decided to email Nicole to ask for her input to see if the existing default inputs left from last year's group were accurate conservative estimates or if she had additional suggestions about what defaults would work best.
Then I noticed that our code for Overall Benefits was not completely working. Although this section of code was working originally, we decided to make some changes that would make the analyzing tool more user-friendly (selecting rows instead of inputting row numbers). Unfortunately it seems that this design change caused some errors. I noticed that the Overall Benefit calculation only worked if the user selected the first row as part of the trees they wanted analyze, but if the first row was not one of the selected rows, an error about undefined variables would appear. Christina and I were able to work together to fix this problem through repeated testing, retracing steps, and trial and error. 
In the last half hour or so, I continued yesterday's task of trying to fix the code for Individual Benefit Calculations, but was not able make much progress. I manipulated the variables and loops from Overall Benefit Analysis to work on code for Individual Benefits and hopefully return the individual benefits for each tree over time instead of overall benefits for all trees for each year, but since there is a larger error about xml roots, I was not really able to test my code.

Today was focused on continuiung yesterday's tasks and elimating errors that came with implementing certain design choices, but there are still unresolved issues in this document regarding Individual Benefit Calculations.

Tomorrow, I plan to continue working of the Individual Analysis. Since I am unfamiliar with XML, it may be necessary to spend some time learning about XML's format and familiarizing myself with the language so that I can understand the error that is popping up about well-formed root elements. Hopefully tomorrow we will able to make some progress in fixing this part of the code so that the analysis tools about the tree benefits are up to par of what Sustainable Claremont is looking for. Further into the future (once we get the Individual Benefits part of the tool to work) hopefully we can talk to Sustainable Claremont about what their goals are for the map, as well as generalizing the Tree Benefit Analysis tool so that it can be used in places other than Claremont (perhaps by making a google form similar to define some of our Claremont-specific variables similar to what Christina had done with the Contacts.)
