Today's work involved mostly graphic design which was an interesting change of pace.

This morning I finished up our poster for the Sustainable Claremont Fourth of July Booth. I have left it with some bare parts and it is a little sparse in information in case we decide to add graphs later with Alina's spreadsheet analysis functions, or if these functions are not ready for the Fourth of July, we can add some more technical details (but not too many). For now I think I will consider the poster done unless I decide to tweak the colors to make it more aesthetically pleasing, since right now it is very colorful, but it may be too loud.

Today I also worked on the logo for our messaging tool. Currently I am still between some designs. I am happy with the icon image in the logo and the color of the logo since it matches the website Christina made. I am unsure if I want to leave the background as plain white or if I want to add a light blue circle. The plain white background looks more clean and more tech-y in my opinion, but the blue circle kind of adds an element of the water of the watering tool. 
Some potential names are 'Take Root', or 'TapRoot', or a more technical name like 'Watering Reminder'. For the tagline, I don't know if I want to leave it blank, if I want to have a more fun tagline like 'Watering Trees Made Easy', or if I want a more technical tagline like 'Tree Watering Reminder Tool.' These are all thinks I will think over a bit more and ask more people for input on before making a final decision.

Throughout the morning and afternoon, after emailing Jeanine a few times back and forth I was able to set up a meeting with Janine for Friday at 2pm in the Digital Resource Center at the library. I am looking forward to learning how to use ArcGIS so that we can get started on the map. (We also got to see Jeanine at the CS chat this morning from 10:30-12:00 where we learned about data ethics, which I found to a pretty interesting topic and certainly a topic that sparks conversation.)

For the last half of the afternoon I made some progress on the notes for the CS open house. I now have about 2 pages of notes for the open house, so I may need to spend some time organizing these notes and making them more concise so that we can make a '2 minute elevator pitch' during open house. 
I also started using these notes to make slides for the CS chat that we will have the week after the fourth of July. I think that putting the notes into slides will help me decide what is important and what can be left. We may be able to use a condensed version of the CS chat slides for the open house.

We also started talking about decorations for our office in preparation for the CS open house. We are thinking of some kind of Lorax theme with Danny Devito incorporated. 

Tomorrow we will probably get started on decorating the office. I am not sure how long this will take, but I am looking forward to this decorating process. I also plan to get more inpput on the logo I have so far to help decide on what the final design should be. I will probably also continue working on the slides and on making the notes more concise.
