Today's work involved a mix of addressing old problems and new problems.

Most of the morning involved finishing up some work concerning the Individual Benefits code. Originally, the code for Individual Benefits only contained information about CO2 removal and Electricity Savings, but after making some minor changes using the code for Overall Benefits as a reference, the Individual Benefits code now displays information about rainwater and air pollution. I also spent some time going through the parts of the code that seem to be finished or nearly finished to delete some Logger.log() statements used in previous testing and updating some of the comments to fit the changes we have made.

I also spent some of the morning preparing for tomorrow's meeting by writing down questions to ask Nicole as well as making sure that all the parts of code that we wanted to show her were working as intended. Our main concerns for tomorrow are regarding the maps and the website. Currently on the website there are maps of the trees split up by project, but some of the project maps contain more information than others. At one point Nicole mentioned having maps as part of a shade study, but it seems that last year's group used the shade canopy study mainly for the active transportation part of the project, so we may ask for some clarification about what we should construct specifically as part of the shade study for Sustainable Claremont. Depending on the goals of the maps, we may construct the shade study using the ARCGIS similar to last year, and then work with Google myMaps to update the current maps, depending on Nicole's goals for the maps.

We also found that the dictionary of trees changes depending on the zip code. As a group we decided that it would be most effective to load the tree species and corresponding species codes into the spreadsheet on-install based on the zipcode that the user inputs through the google form. This method seems to be best since we would only need to load in the information once, when the user inputs their information, instead of having to retrieve all of this information in makeTree, where the current tree dictionary is. If we retrieved the information on every call of makeTree, it might be detrimental to the run time, which is already a pretty big concern of ours. Loading the dictionary of trees into the spreadsheet on-install would also allow us to make the drop down menu of tree species directly. So, based on the fact that we would only need to retrieve this data once to use for all calculations and since we could make the tree dictionary and the drop down menu in one step, we decided that loading the tree species and tree codes on install from iTree into a spreadhseet would be best. Christina worked on implementing this method throughout the afternoon, and it seems that we are making good progress towards making our analysis tool more generalizable.

Throughout most of the afternoon I looked into where the 5% underestimate error might be coming from. So far there are no conclusive results about pinning down where the problem is coming from. I confirmed that this is not a rounding error since removing the rounding method changes the numbers very slightly but does not account for the consistent 5% underestimate. Since it is an underestimate, I also entertained the possibility that we were running the code one too few years, but I was quickly able to confirm that this is not where the problem was coming from. So, the only other possibility that I can think of is that we are missing some parameter or that some parameter is being input incorrectly. I spent quite some time combing through the source code that we located yesterday, but so far I have not been able to pin down the error yet.
Tommorrow I will continue to comb through the source code and try and pin down the 5% underestimate error, since I was not able to find out exactly where this error is coming from, as I have only eliminated some possible sources of error. There is still quite a lot of source code to get through. Tomorrow is also my first time meeting Nicole, and I am looking forward to getting some feedback on what we have accomplished so far as well as seeking some clarification about what to work on next regarding the maps. 
