5/24/19
================

<p class="meta">24 May 2019</p>

Today proved frustrating, yet triumphant. After spending the morning and about an hour of the afternoon creating a set of functions to pull information about weather conditions from a five day forecast, we were finally successful! Yesterday's confusion about the formatting of JSON files was resolved in a discussion this morning with Prof Medero. After understanding how to properly index into a file to pull the condition codes, I attempted to do so, however my code looked suspiciously dissimilar to code already written that pulled data from the same file. After being unable to negotiate those differences, I resorted to asking Prof Medero what I seemed to be missing. It turns out that I was using the wrong API altogether! It was an embarassing mistake, but it was a relief to know that it wasn't my understanding of a concept holding me back; just a casual error I made because I was looking at outdated comments in the code. The previous developers switched the API that they were using from Yahoo Weather to Open Weather Map, however, did not document this in the comments. 

After this realization, I had to rewrite pretty much everything, though I kept my logic intact. The goal of our function was to return a list of weather condition codes for the upcoming five-day forecast. We used the skeleton of code already written for finding temperature to instead index into weather codes. This was an easier task than what was to come...

Next, once the condition list function was done, we began work on determining if there was rain in the forecast, with the iniital goal of simply returning a Boolean: 'true' if there was precipitation predicted, 'false' if not. After discussion about how much weather forecasts of 'rain' vs. 'drizzle' vs. 'showers' etc. varied in actualality, we decided that we needed to account for severity of rain because it would better inform how often trees needed to be watered. This came to fruition in the form of a function with two return values in a list, the aforementioned Boolean, and a sublist of how mnay days it precipitated seperated by type: [# of days of drizzle/light rain, # of days of rain, # of days of snow]. It seems trivial to include data about snow for the program's application in Southern California, however I want the program to be portable and eventually used by a wider audience, so this aided in "future proofing" our work. 

At 2pm, we had a meeting scheduled with Nicole, a representative from Sustainable Claremont, to further discuss project goals. She seemed onboard with many of our ideas thus far, and was pleased with the progress we made in altering watering predictions based on precipitation forecasts. She shared some new goals with us, too, including updating the Sustainable Claremont Green Crew website, improving dynamic map functionality, and providing a streamlined way to sign-up/unsubscribe from electronic notifications. We also proposed customization of reminder time (currently standardized to 6pm), which garnered a positive reaction. Finally, we pitched the Narrowband IoT potential of the project which seemed to go over quite well. I'm not sure of its practicality, but it is something I would LOVE to work on. I find the idea of developing hardware very fun. 

After the meeting, we continued work on our code from the morning, debugging, commenting, and committing it to our repository. With the time we had left for the day, we began work on creating a Google Form and linking ito to a sheet within our existing Resident Contact Info spreadsheet. We also updated some information on the Green Crew's website to reflect the existance of the new form. The only struggle we ran into with this was ensuring that phone number inputs were of the correct length, thugh I am interested in looking into an App Script solution for this, such as creating a custom feature in forms that restricts inputs to exactly certain lengths. 

Next week, I hope to use data from the Green Crew to combine the code written today with the texting frequency code in order to complete the integration of weather condition into the program entirely. But for now, a restful weekend. TGIF!

