Today I finally got a preliminary version of the Shade Canopy Growth Map to work using ArcGIS Online!

This morning was a little frustrating as I spent a lot of time trying to find how to publish a CSV data file as a feature layer, without much progress. However, after some emailing with Brian Hilton from the ArcGIS lab at CGU, we finally figured out that the problem was coming from the fact that I was using an account without the right permissions. So, after getting the right account set up, I was able to finally Enable Time Settings on ArcGIS Online for the CSV data file (now publishable as a Feature Layer). So after a couple minutes of exploring the new account I was able to get the time slider working for the 10 tree mini test data set. 
During the afternoon, Christina and I worked together to get the time slider to work for the larger data set of about 100 trees from the ReLeaf 1.0 project. Christina has been working with writing code to format the data from the original spreadsheet and from our benefit analysis outputs so that when I upload the data into ArcGIS, each tree has information about its long term (40 year) benefits. We spent a little time working with the formatting so that ArcGIS could read our spreadsheet, since there were some formats that threw errors in ArcGIS. One main problem that we fixed is that when there was a crossed out row, originally the output spreadsheet would have 'undefined' values, which caused problems in ArcGIS, but now any crossed out rows are set to the default (Crapemyrtle) tree. This is a temporary fix, so we may come back and find some other way to deal with crossed out rows later on. With the formatting fixed and the mini test data working, we now have a preliminary version of the Shade Canopy Map working! Some problems we still need to deal with are inconsistensies in how certain trees are entered, since some tree species are uppercase which causes problems with out code.
In between working with ArcGIS code, I spent some time brainstorming ways I could expand the Tree Benefit Analysis Tool. Prof. Medero mentioned that I might be able to write some code to get the data to be easier to understand and more accessible to a wider audience. So some initial ideas I have are: convert our numbers into more easily imaginable units (Pounds of CO2 -> car exhaust, kwh -> lightbulbs, etc.), comparing relative benefits of certain variables (i.e. how do benefits change between species, direction, etc.), and packaging the results from our spreadsheet into something that could be implemented into a website. Between working with ArcGIS I also talked to Alina a little bit about her slides, and it seems like she is making good progress so we can work on the species analysis tool soon!

Next week there are a few things to work on. One is to get the ArcGIS map to work for all 883 trees, since now we have it working but only for 134 trees. I might let Reymon work on this a little more heavily since he will be talking about this portion of the project on Thursday. We also need to practice for our CS chat on Thursday by going through the presentation a few times and finishing the map portion of the slides. I also need to start working with Alina on the tree species analysis tool, which hopefully we can finish next week.
