Today I was able to complete the goals I had set out for myself following yesterday's work regarding Tree Benefit Analysis.

This morning was spent mostly examining the changes we had made in order to make sure we were moving in the right direction. One component that I played around with was the run-time of our code in comparison to the run-time of the code from last year's group. I felt that this was an important area to look into since it was one of their main concerns (based on the Protocol for Future Developers). Although the run-time is not completely consistent for every time we run the code, it does seem that the changes we have implemented have helped to improve the run time. Sustainable Claremont seems to run the code in chunks of 30 trees for 40 years, so this is what I tested on. Last year's code generally takes anywhere from 100-150 seconds to run this sized chunk of information. Our code generally takes anywhere from 70-120 seconds to run the same amount of information. While this run-time is still not as fast as we would like it to be, it is considerably faster than last year's code on average.

Another component that I spent some time working with was the discrepancy between our results and iTree's results. We had some concerns about this discrepancy yesterday, because although our code yesterday matched the outputs of last year's code pretty closely, they did not match the iTree outputs at all. I thought this error was most likely from an error with fetching and parsing data from iTree, but I also though it was possible that it could be a larger error coming from last year's code. With guidance from Prof. Medero, we first looked into the possibility that there was an error with fetching and parsing data from iTree. We looked into the source code from iTree in the browser and eventually located the relevant information about the url and filling out the tree information. After locating this information, the early afternoon was mostly spent combing through the source code so that I could understand what it was doing and thus make sure that our App Script code was doing what it was supposed to be doing. 
Upon closer inspection, it did not seem that the error was coming from the fetching and parsing of data from iTree.
From there, I looked more closely at the code from last year. Based on comments in the document and what was said in the Protocol for Future Developers, I had assumed that certain functions were acting as intended. However, based on the continued errors we were getting, it seemed worthwhile to comb through all 772 lines of code in order to make sure that the code from last year was indeed functioning as intended. As it happens, the code from last year was not functioning as intended. There were quite a few errors with correctly summing the data as well as the placement of variables and for-loops in relation to one another. After realizing this, through frequent testing and moving different pieces around so that they made more logical sense, I was able to get our outputs to much more closely match iTree's outputs.
Currently, after making these changes, our outputs are consistently abour 5% lower than iTree's estimate. I will check with Prof. Medero and Nicole to see if this margin of error is acceptable, since it is a small understimate. Our outputs currently do not match last year's output, but they do match iTree's outputs. We have chosen to believe that iTree's outputs are more trustworthy.
Today Alina spent much of her time on Codeacademy learning Javascript, so while I answered some clarifying questions, for the most part Alina worked independently without need for much of my assistance.

Tomorrow I will try and pin down where the 5% underestimating error is coming from, since we want the result to be as accurate as possible. My guess is that it is either a rouding error or there is some overlooked parameter that we need to address. Additionally, we have set up a meeting with Nicole for Thursday afternoon, so I plan to spend some time tomorrow preparing for the meeting by trying to see how to best show off what we have accomplished so far and updating the list of questions to ask. 
