6/19/19: Reymon
================

Today, I researched how the calculations are being processed and the path the i-Tree data takes. Looking through the website source code, it appears that the i-Tree Planting website is requesting information from another website that ends up using the correct i-Tree tool with the benefit calculator. My goal was to find what the calculator was however it seems that may be impossible as it is restricted to the administrators of the code. I was able to find a website that hosted the API for a similar url extension of i-Tree for the locations and zip codes however that required a login key and password as an administrator as well. Since the list of trees available changes depending on the city or zip code, we may be able to use that file that we receive from that location url. However, I don’t think we will be able to incorporate the tree benefit url in an efficient manner. 

Currently the path the request for tree benefit data goes like this:
i-Tree Planting :arrow_right: TreeBenefits.com :arrow_right: i-Tree Tools :arrow_right: i-Tree Streets :arrow_right: i-Tree Eco :arrow_right: Tree Benefit Calculations

Although the path looks like a mess, it is able to return what we need effectively. I am unfamiliar on how to be able to bypass all the middle steps and only request for the tree calculations since it is all formatted through ColdFusion and Jquery. If we were to try, I believe the i-Tree Eco contains what all the calculations and data that we require. The issue with i-Tree Eco is that it is a downloadable software that we can’t send requests to since it isn’t an online tool. Likewise, we can’t really request for a person to download that alongside ours.

Tomorrow we will be having our meeting with Sustainable Claremont. From there I will either continue to investigate the i-Tree source code, proceed to work on maps or begin working on another request. 
