Today I finished up yesterday's task of turning the long chunks of if-statements into more concise dictionaries. This was effective in cutting down the numner of lines of code from ~1300 lines to ~800 lines in Part II of the Tree Benefit Analysis Script. This task took the first hour or two of the morning. 
The rest of the morning and much of the afternoon was spent trying to get the Individual Tree Benefits results to work. I found that it was difficult for me to understand and work with the original format of having the individual tree benefit results appear in the same document where the original trees were (in columns P, Q, R, S). I decided that at least temporarily, I would try to get the results to appear in a separate tab similar to how the Overall Benefits results were set up to appear in a separate tab 'Results'. I made this decision because the Overall Benefits results worked and I wanted to try and mirror the working code from Overall Benefits to get the non-working code in Individual Benefits to work. Thus I have renamed the tabs to have the Overall Benefits appear in a tab called 'Overall Benefits Results' and the Individual Benefits appear in a tab called 'Individual Benefits Results' where the user input row numbers appear column A and the corresponding information aboout CO2 and electricity appears in columns B, C, D, E. 
Additionally, I had noticed some inconsistencies in varible naming and that similar functions often had the same variables but in different orders, so I spent some time trying to get the code to be more uniform and easier to read. 
At the end, we noticed that iTree had been updated with different tree names, so some of the information about tree benefits was incorrect, so I began to compare our tree species dictionary with the tree species on iTree.

Much of today's focus was on fixing the existing code and getting the existing code to work more efficiently. Tomorrow I plan to continue working on these tasks and to perhaps contemplate how we might generalize this code as well. 

Tommorrow, I will finish updating the tree species and I will look into seeing if it is possible to get the dictionary to update when iTree updates, since it may be cumbersome to have to recheck the tree species dictionary every time iTree updates, since there are more than 200 species available. Additionally, the code for Individual Tree Species does not consistently work (although it works better than it did this morning) so I hope to put in more time and see what cases it is not working for so we can polish up what last year's group started. Hopefully we will be able to make new developments towards generalizing this code for other orginizations to use soon. 
