Today involved polishing up of parts of our project we are almost done with as well as the introduction of some new projects.

This morning, after Christina implemented the new system of importing the tree dictionaries from iTree to replace the manually input libraries that we had before, we found that our spreadsheet values matched iTree almost perfectly! So this resolved the big issue from yesterday of the 5% underestimate. I think that the only parts left to complete on the Tree Benefit Analysis portion of this project is to update the default values in the way that Nicole has requested. We previously had a default tree as Crapemyrtle, default direction as North, and default distance as 20'-40', but Nicole has requested that if direction is not specified, we should choose a random direction, and if distance is not specified use 10% "0-20ft", 60% "20-40ft", and 40% "40-60ft". The tree species is almost always specified so we don't really need to worry about it, but we might set it to be whatever the most common tree is in the project. This fix should be very straightforward, so I can implement it first thing tomorrow morning, or if Alina is feeling comfortable with JavaScript, perhaps Alina and I can walk thorugh this fix together.

I also spent some time this morning helping Alina fill our her weekly tasks for Upward Bound. There were several parts of her tasks: interviewing a college graduate/student, organization flow of the office, and information about our topic. By talking these topics, it forced me to think thorugh my own college experience and why I am doing what I am doing, which I found valuable since it often feels like I am following the flow of what I am supposed to be doing instead of really thinking about the motivation behind my actions. Hopefully my insight was helpful in some way to Alina.
Alina seems to be making good progress with Codeacademy, so I anticipate that she will be working with us on the code by next week. Some additional tasks that Alina could take part in (if she feel comfortable) is performing spreadsheet analysis. So, for example, she could write some functions exploring how many of each type of tree there is, or how many people prefer to receive their notifications via email compared to via text message. Another task that our team will need Alina's help with is making the user guides for our tools. Alina provides a new perspective on our tools, so she will be able to point out if there are parts of our user guides that are missing information or hard to follow. 

This afternoon we had our meeting with Nicole from Sustainable Claremont, which cleared up some questions that we had and gave us a few new things to work on. We found that the map portion of the project should be a shade canopy study like last year using ARCGIS and not the Google myMaps format that is currently on the webite. We may need to sschedule a tutorial to learn how to use ARCGIS at the library at some point next week. Nicole also mentioned that it was inconvenient to fill out some portions of the spreadsheet of their volunteers, so we may investigate ways to simplify this process to make it more automatic and less manual using the some method we used to retrieve information from iTree and automatically put it into the spreadsheet. We will need to further investigate the source code of the website they are using for this information to see if automatization is possible. 
Nicole also mentioned concerns about setting up Green Crew's website, so if she requests it, we may be able to help with the process of setting up the website. We have also planned to launch the messaging system portion of the project in about a week and a half (Monday, July 1, 2019). This timing allows us to troubleshoot if errors pop up for the messages on the Wednesday after the launch.

Some additional events to plan for in the near future were brought up by Prof. Medero during our walk to and from the meeting. The Fourth of July booth gives up an oppurtunity to see if our google form is working and to connect to the community that our work is connecting with. So, based on the importance of this July 4th event, we may set up a CS chat the week after July 4th to talk to the rest of the department about what we have been working on. Additionally, we should probably start thinking about how to decorate our office for the CS open house. Lastly, since we may have additional time at the end of the project if we finish all the tasks we have been assigned, I may start looking into additional topics that I am interested in exploring. One potential area is Environmental Justice, since this is a field that I took a summer course in during high school and which sparked my interest, but I have not explored it much since then. This may be a good oppurtunity to explore this topic, since we have already developed tools examining the quantitative effects of planting trees, so extrapolating this data to connect it to environmental justice may be interesting. This is just a prelimary idea though, since I am not sure how far I can really go on this topic or how much this topic relates to our project. 
