Today I worked on finishing up the ArcGIS guide and starting the Tree Benefit Analysis guide.

This morning I proofread what I wrote on Monday regarding the ArcGIS user guide. I mostly worked on improving clarity and catching some spelling/grammar mistakes. I am currently happy with how the guide looks. I also walked through the ArcGIS step by step by create my own map and append my own data as a preliminary way to check if I had missed any steps. I may have to ask a fresh set of eyes to come in and see if my guide is clear enough or not, since it might not be the most efficient for me to go through my own guide, since I am very likely to be biased.

For the rest of the day I worked on writing the guide for the Tree Benefit Analysis. This turned out to be harder than I originally anticipated. Initially, I thought writing this guide would be easier than writing the ArcGIS guide, since with the ArcGIS guide we started fresh with ArcGIS Online and it does not contain much overlap with the ArcGIS guide that last year write. It turns out that writing the Tree Benefit Analysis guide, where there is a lot of overlap between our work and last year's group, actually makes things a lot harder than if I was writing a fresh guide. I don't want to repeat all the information from last year's group, but I also want the reader to be well-informed. After spending a little time struggling with writing this guide, I eventually decided to write out a rough guideline for how to structure this document.
I have broken the document into 8 sections, each with some subsections. I am not totally committed to this outline since I don't really know how much information will end up fleshing out each section, so I may eventually end up merging some sections or breaking into even more sections if I have too little or too much information. For now this is what I have. The first section, which is the only section I have finished writing, introduces the project and the spreadsheet, so similar to what last year's group did, I will define some key terms, write a guide to what each spreadsheet tab's purpose is and what each menu item's purpose is. I think that these last two sections are especially important since we have accumalated so many tabs and so many tools as we have continued this project. The second section will talk about our work with the Individual Analysis tool, since this is an important continuation that we have developed from last year's tool. I plan to point back to last year's group's document for more details on fetching from iTree and XML parsing, since we used those parts of the tool which last year had already developed. Third, I plan to talk about the steps we took to improve accuracy and get our results to match iTree. Fourth I will talk about some design changes that we made in order to make the tool more user friendly. This includes fixing looping problems and getting our species dictionary directly from iTree instead of manually creating the dictionary. Fifth, I will talk about how we have taken steps to generalize the tool so that it is not just specific to 91711, primarily the set-up form and other previously hard-coded features. Sixth I will talk about what Alina and I worked on regarding the spreadsheet distribution analysis tools. Seventh I will talk about Christina's biodiversity tool, including what metrics it calculates, what they mean, and how it was done. Lastly, I will talk about the next steps of this project, like maybe decreasing run time, finding more indices like biodiversity to calculate, and possibly getting the static map working.

Unrelated to the user guides, I thought that the USC poster session was pretty fun and very informative. Going around and seeing the research that is happenning at other campuses was a fun learning experience and being able to talk to so many researchers in person was something that I haven't been able to before.
Additionally it was nice to be able to explain our project to so many people. It seemed like a lot of people were genuinely very interested in out project and asked some very compelling questions about our project and its applications.

I'm taking tomorrow off, but on Thursday I plan to continue and hopefully even finish the Tree Benefit Analysis user guide, and since we've already had a poster session on monday I think thursday's poster session will run smoothly. 
