Today I finished embedding the Shade Canopy Map, started planning for next week's poster events, and implemented some unit conversions for the Analysis Tool.

This morning I finished implementing the shade canopy map that I have been working on for the last week or two. I ran into some trouble embedding the map into the website because of the large number of trees in the StoryMap that we are using. I was able to work around this by making a new map, embedding that empty map, then adding the trees little by little. This method is not ideal, but hopefully we will not we re-embedding the map, so I think this will work for our purposes. The map on the website updates live from any changes to the map, so it seems unlikely that we will need to re-embed the map. I spent some time cleaning up some of the pop-ups, the zooming, and the overall visual design, so I am happy with how it looks, and I think the version currently live on the website will be the final version.
One problem that I have not been able to resolve is the issue of live updating from the google sheet into ArcGIS. After some research online and having talked to Brian last week, it does not seem like we really have a feasible solution. If I upload from the web instead of from a downloaded CSV, the data updates live, but we lose the ability to use a time slider. I poked around on ArcGIS and it looks like we can append CSV files to the current data, and the map will automatically update. This is something that I think would be relatively easy to do given that someone has an ArcGIS account. I am willing to give my ArcGIS log in information to Green Crew or to next year's group and to write a user guide for how to update the data if no other solution to this problem is found. I may try emailing Jeannine and/or Warren, but from what I have found, it may be necessary to manually update the maps. It is not too technically challenging, and I think that especially with a user guide and using the program that Christina wrote for formatting the data it is relatively easy even for someone without ArcGIS experience.

I spent some time this afternoon planning for a poster that we can use for next week's poster events on Monday at USC and on Thursday here at Mudd. I think that for the most part we will have the same information that we had in our CS chat, but just with more condensed information/more information that is just spoken and not written on the poster. I don't think that making this poster will be too challenging since we have a lot of the packaged information already in our slides. The main challenge will probably be spatial planning, so we may need to cut some things out. My current plant has the most essential parts of our project, so just the basics of Contact, Analysis Tool, and the Shade Canopy Map. We may have to cut out some things like DAC scraping, spreadsheet analysis (although I do plan to include a graph displaying biodiversity), and ArcGIS Insights.

Today I also implemented the conversions from some of our less easily visualized units into other units that might be more familiar to the general public. Specifically, I added conversions from pounds of CO2 to gallons of gas and from kWh to days if one lightbulb was left on continuously. I decided to implement these conversions specifically, since sometimes these numbers can get pretty large and it can be hard to visualize. I think that especially if Sustainable wants to communicate the tree benefits to the general public, these units may be more effective in communicating the positive benefits of trees, since people can more easily visualize a gallon of gas or a lightbulb as opposed to a pound of CO2 or kilowatt-hours. The way I have currently implemented these unit conversions is by adding an extra row or column in our result spreadsheet tabs. 
Christina also implemented the Biodiversity calculations into the spreadsheet, so that when users analyze the tree species, they also get a pop-up with information about the biodiveristy of the trees they are analyzing. With these pieces implemented, I think that we are pretty much done with the coding part of the analysis tool. From here, we may just need to clean up the code and the spreadsheets in preparation for implementing the tool. Something to look into is implementing some version of the Individual Benefit Analysis tool into the website so residents can see the impact of their tree.

Tomorrow, I will start working on our poster based on the plan today and get feedback about the plan from the rest of the team. I also may start cleaning up the code and making sure that everything is organized and commented thoroughly as well as re-arranging some spreadsheet tabs and menu items. 
