Today Christina and I finished the poster for Monday's poster events. We also worked on some ways that we can easily communicate our information about tree benefits to residents. Lastly, I wrote/modified some code so that it is easier for future users to append data to the ArcGIS map.

This morning Christina and I started working on the poster for Monday's event, and we were able to pretty much finish it by mid-afternoon. Our poster details the overall motivation beind the project as a whole, the methods we used (ie: Google App Scipt and ArcGIS), details about the three main parts of our project (TakeRoot, Analysis tool, shade canopy), and a conclusion about what we feel we have accomplished throughout the project. Our poster also includes some visuals in the center of the panel to aid us when explaining the project. Visuals include a flow-chart of how the Analysis tool works, biodiversity metrics, the spreadsheet set up of the contact tool, and a screenshot from our shade canopy map.
The poster is currently a little wordy, but after looking at some of the example posters that Prof. Dodds sent out, it seems like the amount of text that we have on our poster is reasonable compared to the examples and considering the size of the poster. We may go back in and edit the poster later this week, but for now I am happy with where the poster is.

We also did a little bit of brainstorming about how we might disseminate the tree benefits to the residents of Claremont. We currently have a lot of great information and calculations in our spreadsheet and using out analysis tool, but this information is not really available to the general public. Prof. Medero suggested writing something that can automatically create flyers about some of our more 'fun' metrics like gallons of gas or lightbulbs, which I think could be interesting. Additionally, I changed the CO2 sequestered from pounds to gallons of gas in the shade canopy map live on the website, so hopefully this is one way of getting our information out there successfully implemented. Further steps could be playing around with the analysis tool to calculate some fun facts that we could add to Green Crew's list of fun facts. For example, we could report how many CO2 equivalent gallons of gas the ReLeaf 1.0 will remove from the air after 50 years, or how many days worth of lightbulbs one tree saves over 20 years.

Thus far I still am not able to find a feasible way to get ArcGIS to live update from the Google Spreadsheet, so I think I may need to take the route of writing a user guide of how to manually update the map using the tools we have built so far. Writing this user guide is something I plan to tackle either this week or between poster sessions next week. Given the tools we have and the capabilities of ArcGIS, I think that the user guide will not be too complex. I spent some time today making sure that we have tools that make it as easy as possible for users to append new tree data onto the existing data in ArcGIS, which is a capability that ArcGIS has.
This afternoon I also worked on adding to Christina's existing code that formats the data to be ArcGIS readable so that it is easier for next year's group or for Sustainable Claremont to update the map. We previously had a function that would take any newly selected trees from the 'All spreadsheet and add the processed data of these new trees to the already processed data. This was incredibly useful for creating the maps initially, but may make things difficult when users just want to append new tree data. So by working with Christina's existing code, I was able to write a function that puts only the ArcGIS outputs of selected trees into a new spreadsheet so that they can be appended in ArcGIS. Tomorrow I will test and make sure that everything in this function works as it should in ArcGIS.

Tomorrow, I will test what happens when you append data in ArcGIS and make sure that everything works as expected. If this works then I can start working on the user guide tomorrow, otherwise I will need to troubleshoot. Additionally, I may work with the benefit analysis tool to come up with the aforementioned fun facts so that these calculations/facts can reach Claremont residents through their watering reminders.
