6/12/19: Reymon
================

Today, I updated the i-Tree list in the Google Sheets as well as worked on finding out more information on creating updating maps for Sustainable Claremont. Various issues arose with creating the desired map as mentioned in the last post. At the moment, Google’s update prevents a lot of things with google maps, such as generating a Google Map and Google’s Geolocation preventing us to update addresses with coordinates for accurate tree data without an API key. I believe the code we have was used as an initial implementation for the process of creating dynamic maps through a now outdated version of Google Maps. Likewise, the code that creates a url to generate a map is apparently unused and irrelevant in the website since the maps on the website were obtained through “Google My Maps” and not the App Script Code. On the website, there are currently 5 embedded static maps linked to an account that originally embedded the maps and can only be updated manually. Each map was generated through Google My Maps and uses the information stored in the Tree Sheet to create each map. For the maps to be updated, the person updating the website must create and embed newly generated Google My Maps. Likewise, there are several formatting issues of addresses between each sheet that causes occasional undesired markers to be placed in inaccurate locations. As a result, if desired, Sustainable Claremont can pay for the API key to gain access to dynamic maps or they current maps can stay the same. If the decision is for the current maps to stay the same, then there are only a few minor inconveniences. The current maps are visually appealing and functional but will require someone in the future to manually update the map with all trees planted as well as embedding manually any new project map. Likewise, the formatting of the addresses and the need for coordinates will need to be addressed.

Tomorrow, I will be looking for a method of bypassing the Google Maps by trying to see if Google My Maps can be automated, although I don’t believe it is possible or it may be too difficult. Otherwise, I will be trying to fix the issues with the addresses.  
