6/10/19
================

<p class="meta">10 June 2019</p>

Today I continued my quest into creating an installation sequence, as well as talking with our new team member (!) about what we had done, and what the plan was moving forward. I was able to create HTML forms upon installation today, adding both the link in the initial dialog, and then creating a dialog with multiple inputs for more convenient setup of the initial values. I had to look at a lot of Stack Overflow tutorials for this, as I did not previously have much knowledge of HTML. It was something that I had briefly tried to work with a couple years ago to make a simple webpage, as well as working on a simple tutorial in my CS class last semester. Still, I was unfamiliar with the form and script tags. I found it really fascinating that script could be included within the HTML document itself to process the data received by the form, and also control the form’s function. I used the script in both ways.

I was able to restrict the processing of the HTML form if all fields were not full, spitting the form out again for the user to fill in. I would ideally like to have a little red asterisk, as is common in forms that have required questions, but I’m not sure if this is an element of HTML. It would also be nice to restrict data formats in the same way the Google Forms restricts formats, though, again, I am not sure if this is a possibility. I was then able to capture this data, converting it from an HTML formData item into a JSON file and passing it from the HTML document back into the code. From there, though things get very odd. I was not able to index into the returned JSON object, and when I parsed it, it went back to the HTML formData. I cannot use this formData, so I really need to find a way to index into it, so I can select certain elements for use in the definition of the global variables. 

Additionally, I am still struggling with a good way of storing the data, as I haven’t found any good tools to do so built into App Scripts. I think I will have to take a less graceful approach, and store the initial values in a sheet within the greater spreadsheet, however, I am worried about the potential for this to be edited very easily, and the computational work that it might take to extract the values of this sheet every time the program is run. I want to look into a way to see if the sheet can be hidden or locked, so it acts as its own long term data storage. 

Today I also began to look at the code used in the shade study from last summer. It appears very confusing, and I don’t really understand the parts of it referring to xml, parent nodes, and child nodes. This will be something to look into tomorrow. 
