Today I worked on getting the ArcGIS map into story maps and creating proportional shade canopies, and I also prepared for tomorrow's CS chat.

This morning, we discovered that the DNS error that we were running into yesterday has now been fixed. We think that we made too many iTree requests, and they temporarily blocked us. In order to combat this problem, Prof. Medero suggested that we implement throttling so that we can request information in a more reasonable way so as to avoid getting blocked again.

For the rest of the morning and the early afternoon, I looked into getting the canopies to be to-scale with the rest of the map. This was able to be accomplished using buffers since buffers require units and thus change proportionally with the map as you zoom in and out, whereas layers do not. Christina worked with getting the canopy sizes to work accurately with ArcGIS, which means we had to change from inches to feet and divide by two. This is because ArcGIS does not allow us to input buffers with inches as units and ArcGIS makes buffers based on radius size, whereas our shade canopies were based on the diameter. So, with the correct information and after a little bit of messing around and familiarizing myself with buffers, we now are able to create a shade canopy map where the shade canopies are proportional to the rest of the map. we also are able to maintain distinction between species of trees, since buffers can be categorized just like layers can.
With the data that we have processed so far, we have been able to create an essentially finalized version of the ReLeaf 1.0 trees' shade canopy map. Next, we will need to process the rest of the data so that we can made the total shade canopy map. Hopefully, this process runs smoothly, since I think I have the method down pretty solidly, it's just a matter of executing these final steps.

The rest of the afternoon was spent practicing ouur presentation. After presenting our run through, there are a couple things that need to be adressed. I think that after hearing and presenting the slides, I will convert some slides to back-up slides (ie the iTree technical slide). I also will make some backup slides for the ArcGIS map, since if people have questions more specifically about how we made our map I want to be prepared to answer them. I think that Reymon has great information about ArcGIS as a system and the reason that we are using ArcGIS, but since the map being presented is one that I worked primarily on, if people have questions about the map itself I want to have the resources to answer them.
I think I still need to condense my slides a bit more or even break them up into multiple slides (especially with the tool talking about how analysis our tool works), and I may write up some presentation notes with the more technical information so that I still have the information written out available to me, but it will not be crowding the slides. I also plan to spend some time tomorrow going through the slides and practicing presenting a few more times.

Tomorrow, I will continue working on the ArcGIS map to get closer to a finalized version and I will prepare for our CS chat tomorrow morning. We also have a meeting with Brian Hilton from CGU's ArcGIS lab, so if I am running into difficulties with making the map, I will ask him tomorrow. 
