6/24/19: Reymon
================

Today, I worked with the ArcGIS software and explored the creation of maps that correlate with the data we have on trees. I faced various problems while working with the software. For our data, the addresses on the spreadsheet need to be reformatted. Likewise, since it’s a .csv file that is being imported, each instance where there is a comma, it places the next name the next column. This pushes everything forward and the address location would no longer be in the address column.  For example, if the tree species contain a comma separating out the names, the city “Claremont” input would be in the Y Coordinate column. I believe a solution for the comma issue would be to use ArcGIS for Developers to create a function that ignores the commas inside the tree species column. Then using that function, we can also import the data over.

According to some sources, it appears that if the spreadsheet is updated, then the map can also be refreshed lived. If everything works correctly, that would help solve any issues of updating the maps for future projects in an easier manner. 

In ArcGIS maps, all the visuals come from the individual layers being displayed over a map. For the Shade Canopy Study, there would be a layer for the tree placement markers, and either a dynamic layer (if possible?) or several layers that show the growth of the tree canopies over time. Likewise, it is possible to combine several layers into one singular one however it is unknown if that would help solve the time-lapse issue the dynamic layer would solve. I have also discovered that there is a heat map. As such, if we can’t figure out how to create a polygon over a marker, we can simply use a heat map layer over each marker. Tomorrow I will continue working with ArcGIS.

