5/23/19
================

<p class="meta">23 May 2019</p>

Hi! My name is Christina Catlett, and I am a rising sophomore at Scripps College, where I am majoring in Computer Science and minoring in Math.

Though today was the third day of our work in the REU, it was the first that Professor Medero, our project advisor, was in town. In meeting with her this morning, she was a great help in providing direction for our work today and helping us prioritize tasks. This was in stark contrast to my work yesterday and the day before, which certainly helped me understand the progress made by previous teams on the project, however was less organized than it could have been.

I began the morning by continuing to read the materials produced by the group from last summer and matching their written explanations to code. Because we will be building upon already existing programs, it is very important to me to fully comprehend the code and reasoning already in place before building anything new. In addition to reading the previous code, I played around with the Google App Scripts language some more as well. Not having a background in Javascript, App Scripts has been a bit frustrating to learn, as I know what ideas I want to express, I just struggle with the syntax. Despite this, I have been moderately successful in using App Scripts across Google Sheets, Docs, Slides, and Gmail to create some toy programs.

Right before 11am, Professor Medero arrived and gave us some guidance and direction for the rest of the day. We mainly discussed ways to expand upon the previous body of work, and some objectives emerged: improving weather prediction to go beyond temperature and into weather conditions such as rain, snow, wind, etc., creating an open-source App Scripts library for wider use by environmental non-profits, and ensuring the stability of the code by putting in place more formatting failsafes to aid data entry by the folks at Sustainable Claremont. 

After our meeting came to a close, we attended the day's CS Chat about the previous projects in the HEAT Lab, a lab here at Harvey Mudd that examines human-robot interactions. The topic of discussion centered around STN's and previous teams/ research into optimizing the way that flexibility of a system is measured. I found the math beautiful in its geometric simplicity, and the talk as a whole very interesting. 

After the talk and brief lunch, I returned to begin work on altering the weather prediction code, and had to grapple with JSON, which I had not worked with before. The data I was attempting to use was gathered through the Yahoo Weather API, and output in a .JSON file. After examining the structure of the .JSON, I was able to write code to index into the correct sub-tree and grab data about the weather condition. The API presents this data as both strings (‘Cloudy’) and as codes (40), but I thought it would be easier to quantify the weather conditions as it left more possibilities open for future development (severity of weather, etc.) as similar weather types were listed sequentially. In the end, I wrote several functions, though, as of yet, they remain untested. I wrote conditionData() to extract a list of condition codes for a five day forecast, forecastRain() to return a boolean if rain is or is not in the five day forecast, and daysofRain() to return how many day in the next five will have rain. These are all very simple functions, however it did take me significant time to understand to to get information from the API with the JSON file and consequently import that into my App Scripts code. I plan to integrate these functions with the existing code tomorrow (granted that they’re functional) as a conditional to inform the output of how many times residents on Sustainable Claremont’s notification list should be watering their trees in a week. I do need some scientific insight here, as I would be interested to know how rainfall decreases tree-watering necessity and the interaction of temperature and rainfall in determining watering frequency.

Additionally, we have a meeting planned with a representative from Sustainable Claremont tomorrow in which our project goal will likely shift and grow based on the needs of the organization.  I’m excited to ask questions and get feedback about what has already been done to further inform what we’ll be working on for the rest of the summer. 

