Today I tried to fixed a problem we ran into regarding iTree's DNS, worked on the shade canopy map and StoryMaps, and did a little work regarding my individual project.

This morning when we tried to run the code for the iTree Automation, we received an error saying "Execution failed: DNS error: https://www.itreetools.org/treebenefit/treebenefitwithnewenergy.cfc". When we ran the code yesterday, everything was working fine, and I don't think we have changed anything regarding the url or the xml files since yesterday. We spent some time trying to fix this error by restoring old versions and rechecking the url from the source code, but we keep getting the same error.
Christina and I suspect that we may have made too many requests to iTree and they have blocked our requests. We are hoping for some guidance from Medero about how to deal with this problem so that we can continue working on our spreadsheet analysis tool and our maps. We think we might need to reach our to iTree so that we don't run into this problem in the future, but we are not sure how to reach out to iTree to fix this problem.

I also spent some time today working on my individual research project. I think something quick that I can implement is conversion from our current units (from iTree) into more concrete and easy to understand units. For example I could convert pounds of CO2 into car exhaust, which is 1 gallon of gas makes 20 pounds of CO2. And kWh into lightbulb use, which is .06 kWh for one lightbulb for one hour. This would help with the problem of Green Crew being able to present their information to the more general public more easily and hopefully more effectively when the units are easier to visualize.

I spent most of the afternoon working on ArcGIS. Christina was able to fix the problem of some tree names being common names or captilized through some coding. Now, once we are able to use iTree again, we will be able to run ArcGIS code in the spreadsheet to create a correctly formatted sheet for all of the trees, which we will be able to use to create our total shade canopy map! So, once we have access to iTree, we have the ability to make the shade canopy map. I am not sure about the status of the buffer method of creating the map, but we now have a working method of creating a shade canopy map.
I also started making the story map. I now have a test version of what the story map might look like. I am thinking that we would have different tabs for each project, where the first tab is all 883 trees planted and each following tab is one planting project with some corresponding information. Currently it seems like this is very doable, since I was able to map a storymap of three different test versions of shade canopy maps, all with working time sliders. Something I still need to work on is getting the shade canopies to be to scale with the rest of the map, since they are currently too large. I still need to do some online research about whether this is feasible or not.

Tomorrow, hopefully we will be able to fix our DNS problem with iTree. If there is time, I will continue brainstorming for my individual project. I also will look into getting the canopies to be proportional, although yhis is not an immediate concern. If we are able to fix the iTree DNS problem, the Christina and I will be able to make a correctlty formatted spreadsheet for all the trees and make the shade canopy map as Sustainable Claremont has requested. We also need to practice for Thursday's CS chat. The slides for the ArcGIS portion of the presentation still do not seem to be complete, but I am hopeful that they will be done by tomorrow afternoon, in time fo us to practice our presentation. Otherwise, I think the rest of the presentation looks good!
