5/28/19
================

<p class="meta">28 May 2019</p>

After a long weekend, it was difficult to get back into the swing of things. I began this morning by finishing the Google Sites formatting for the Green Crew and cleaning up my work from Friday. This included linking and writing a short blurb explaining the Google Form that Reymon and I had worked on last Friday under the already existent ‘Resources’ tab, as well as reordering the subpages within the Resources section of the site to align to the order set out by the main Resources home page. This was a simple drag-and-drop process, yet I felt that, though it was a small change, having a more intuitively organized website would pay off in the long run by allowing for more accessible user engagement. I also created a subpage for the form itself, stylizing the page in the theme of other pages of the website. I decided to co locate all forms related to the watering system reminders of this page: subscription, cancellation, and general feedback. We settled upon utilizing three forms instead of just two, because we wanted feedback from users that were not cancelling their subscriptions, as this would give us a broader view of what aspects of the system were viewed positively rather than just the negatives. I built the forms in the same style as the subscription form and linked them at the bottom of the page. As a final touch on the website, I included the subscription link, yet again, on the FAQ page under an appropriate question relating to tree-watering. I figured that this inclusion was analogous to providing an ‘answer’ to this FAQ.

After formatting the website, we took time to examine our goals and write a detailed description of the project including must-haves, stretch goals, and how would our progress be measured. This brought up the question of a final product. I think that it would be very interesting to package our work as a portable system for use by organizations similar to the Sustainable Claremont. As of yet, we are unsure of how to go about this, though I would like to look into what is involved in publishing a Google App Scripts library of our own. This, or even a more complete software package, along with detailed documentation would allow our code to be used and reused by different non profits with similar goals. Especially since the CalFire ReLeaf grants were given across the state, we know there is a market for what we are making. 
At 11:00am, Prof Medero delivered today’s CS Chat explaining the motivation behind both our project and her Texting for Social Psychology project. Though I knew the information, it was nice to have it reiterated so we could again grasp the big picture. I was encouraged by the number of questions Prof Medero received and the general enthusiasm of the group. This was really nice going into the afternoon.

In the afternoon, I expanded language support for the notification system. Initially I was just planning on including support for Spanish translation via Google Translate (as Spanish speakers are a significant linguistic group in Southern California), however in order to make the program more portable and take further advantage of Google’s translation software, I added support for the top 20 most spoken languages in the U.S. other than English. I did this with a dictionary in which I had each language assigned to its corresponding code which Google uses in App Scripts to make the translation. I worry about accuracy with this, as Google Translate is known for humorous inaccuracies. However, because of the general simplicity of the messages sent, and the versatility of the feature, I think its benefits outweigh its costs. Tomorrow I hope to expand the geographical capabilities of the program by allowing it to cater to an individual’s zip code, rather than just one set by the organization using the software. This appears to be a difficult process and I hope to at least set up a dictionary with zip codes as its key, and then either the preferred contact method or the row as its values. This will allow use to make fewer calls to the OWM API and therefore improve speed and efficiency. 

