Today I figured out how to successfully append data in ArcGIS (there are still some problems), and I fixed some problems with viewing the shade canopy map on the website. I also spent some time playing around with our analysis tool to come up with some fun facts that we could add to the existing list of fun facts.

Using the function written yesterday afternoon and by manually matching data fields in ArcGIS once the CSV file is uploaded to ArcGIS, it is relatively straightforward to append new data without disrupting the existing fields. I can definitely write a user guide for how to do this and give access to my ArcGIS account so that Gren Crew can add new data.
However, there are still some problems regarding updating the data. when the data is updated, the tree markers (in the feature layer) are updated with the data, however the buffers displaying the shade canopies do not update. Additionally, it would be impractical to recreate all the buffers when new data is added since it uses credits to make new buffers, and I have not get found a way to only make buffers for some data points and not all data points.

Christina also pointed out an error regarding viewing the shade canopy maps on the green crew website this morning. Initially I thought that this was because we had too many trees/too many data points, so I tried splitting up the map. However, it quickly became apparent that it had to do with the permissions of the we applications. So, once I changed the permissions to be viewable to everyone even if they don't have an ARcGIS account, this problem was fixed, so now the shade canopy maps are live and viewable by everyone on the Green Crew website.

I also spent some time using our existing tree benefit analysis tool to calculate some fun facts that Green Crew can use in their message reminders. So far, I have been working with the Releaf data to calculate some benefits over 25 years using some of our more accessible units like gallons of gas and lightbulbs. I also started compiling individual benefits data combined with the weighted percentages to come up with an "average tree" benefits. I will finish coming up with 'average tree' benefits tomorrow and continue thinking of facts we can write up.
We also have a meeting with Nicole today at 4pm (which is why this entry is going up a bit earlier than usual) to fix some triggers on the contact tool, so that tonight's messages can be sent out smoothly, so hopfully that will go smoothly and residents get their messages.

Tomorrow I plan to continue working in the fun facts, perhaps think of other ways to package the information and practice what we are going to say for Monday's poster session.
