5/29/19
================

<p class="meta">29 May 2019</p>

Yesterday’s frustrations became today's celebrations, as we were able to test and debug the functions we wrote yesterday and end the day with a fully functional and integrated Google Form, Google Sheet, and App Scripts program. Most importantly, the language support we spent so long on yesterday works!! We struggled a lot with syntax, as we were unable to find detailed documentation about working with dictionaries in Javascript, and were confused by the difference between Javascript’s different object types such as arrays, maps, and dictionaries. 

When we were first testing the code from yesterday, the error messages it returned were ambiguous, so it was difficult to isolate problem areas and even begin to identify what was wrong. Luckily, Prof. Medero met with us early on in the day and the strategy that we used to write functions regarding translation changed entirely, negating any usefulness our prior code had. The change, in large, dealt with the number of API requests we were making to Google Translate. It did not seem practical to complete a request for each and every row if that row’s language preference had already been seen before. This would have been redundant, and costly in time and computational complications such as timeout requests and throttling. Instead of this, Prof. Medero introduced us to the concept of memoization. This is a strategy in which a program “remembers” if it has seen a situation before and what it got as its outcome. This is especially useful in recursion, as it cuts time and power drastically when the function calls upon itself. For our purposes, we used memoization to “save” a dictionary of languages that our program had already translated along with their translations. This allowed our program to skip retranslating the original English message when it encountered a preferred language it had seen before. This is an especially useful method for how I expect our data to be distributed, as well. Because of our location in Southern California, and the presence of a large Spanish-speaking population, I expect to process relatively few languages, however large quantities of the languages that we do encounter. This makes memoization even more appealing.

At 11am, it was time for the daily CS Chat. I found today’s talk wildly interesting from both a biological and computational standpoint. Prof Breeden spoke about her work on dynamic eye tracking, its biological background, and current and future applications in finding the balance between high quality graphics and efficient computing. She focused on the role of the fovea and how focus and eye movement can be quantified and analyzed. Beyond analysis, she even spoke of how eye movement can be manipulated and the ethical concerns that could arise from this. The content was fascinating, and the talk overall was quite humorous. 

In the afternoon, we finally were able to finish integrating language support, and now it works! It was  a lot of time and testing, but now all message can be sent in 20 unique languages. Because of the inaccuracies that can occur when using an automated translator, I included a disclaimer at the bottom of each translated message letting users know that the translation was automatic. For this, they should be able to understand that the errors are from translation, not content. 
