Most of today was spent working on the Individual Tree Benefits code from the Tree Benefits Analysis app script. By the end of the morning I was able to get the code to run without throwing any outstanding errors, which felt like a big step in the right direction. Many of the changes I made had to do with fixing certain for-loops to make sure that the right methods were being looped for the right variables. There were also some errors with variables being in the wrong order when functions were being called, causing the wrong values to be assigned to the wrong variables, causing many errors which were able to be eliminated with a few simple fixes, but it took some time to pin down these variable errors. Additionally, because of the way that users select rows by clicking and dragging instead of inputting rows in a pop up dialogue, it was necessary to edit some code from last year regarding how the information is being put into the result spreadsheet so that the start and end rows made sense for our design. This error took a lot of test cases and trial & error to fix. At some point, Google App Script and Google Sheets seemed to malfunction and brought the code back to a version where the changes we had made were somehow reverted, so the code returned to a state of returning many errors which we had previously fixed. It took a little while of restoring yesterday's versions and reimplementing changes in order to get the code back to working the way it had been earlier. We are still not quite sure what happened with this malfunction or why it happened, but we were able to get the code to its state before the malfunction. I also spent some time this afternoon cleaning up the code by rearranging, reformatting, and adding comments to the areas with teh new changes I made so that the code more human readable. I also ran quite a few test cases to make sure that the code is not malfunctioning on some edge cases.

Today was heavily spent looking at the code for Individual Trees' Benefits as this is the part that was not working from last year's group, but as they mentioned, this seemed like it could be a very useful tool if functioning properly. There are still some obstacles before this code is fully functional, but it feels like we are making good progress.

Tomorrow I plan to examine some of the inconsistencies in the outputs of Calculate Overall Benefits and Calculate Individal Benefits. It seems that some of the changes that Christina and I have introduced may have unintentionally introduced some errors in fetching the data from iTree, since some of the numbers seem either unreasonable or do not match with the data run using last year's code. Fixing these inconsistencies will be tomorrow's main focus. If there happens to be additional time, I also would like to start looking at how to update the static maps using the same methods that last year's group used, but now with the updated tree spreadsheet. As we continue working on this Tree Benefit Analysis section of the project it may be wise to set up a meeting with Sustainable Claremont just to make sure that our progress is headed in the right direction and to see if there are additional requests they would like us to fulfill.
