6/7/19
================

<p class="meta">7 June 2019</p>

Today was a day full of frustrations with Google App Scripts and its limitations. My main task for the day was figuring out how to allow for set up of the program by a new client, assuming it is packaged as a Google Sheets Add-on. I looked into how to trigger a function to run immediately upon installation. Like onOpen(), a built-in trigger exist for this as onInstall(). My intention for an onInstall() function is to run a set-up “wizard” like you would find on downloadable software, especially those from a couple years ago. I’m thinking of a series of dialogs that would take in typed inputs and then set those inputs equal to the global variables for use in later functions. I had no problem setting up an onInstall function to run a series of dialogs, however, I did run into trouble with optimizing this process and using the data for anything meaningful.

My first attempt to take in the data was a series of prompts called from Google’s UI class, each prompt getting one input. I was hoping to use the Javascript LocalStorage feature to set and get the values from these prompts, as I had read online that this feature would allow data to be stored across browsing sessions. This, I assumed, would mean that the global variables could be saved without rerunning the onInstall() function, and therefore having to receive user inputs again.  When I tried to implement this, however, I found out that Apps Scripts does not support localStorage. After that, I could keep my dialog structure, but it was back to square one otherwise. I researched other methods of storing data, and while the built-in Google cache seemed like a contender, it only stored data for very short periods of time, making it unsuited for my purposes. Google did have a good local storage function for Chrome Extensions, however this was again unsuited for my purposes. 

I spent so much of the day working on this with absolutely no success; it was very frustrating. I was pleased, however, with the way that the dialogs ran, and the idea that I had to link the guide for installation within the dialogs themselves. This didn’t quite happen today, as I think that I need to use the Google HTML Service to make it work. I am unfamiliar with this feature, so my tasks Monday will include learning a bit of HTML, and also figuring out a way to store data in the program for the long term. 
