Today's work was busy, but felt quite fulfilling. This morning started with welcoming our high school intern, Alina, from the Upward Bound program. Alina mentioned that she had no previous experience with computer science, so I was a little bit unsure about how to get her started on the project, since I didn't want it to feel like I was throwing her into the deep-end. To me, the information that was most useful in grasping the goals of the project was reading the Protocol for Future Developers written by last year's team, since these documents have information about the different parts of the project organized in a clean way. I spent most of the morning explaining the general goals of this project to Alina as well as conversing with her and trying to better understand her goals for the internship. Based on our conversation about her internship last year, it seems that having robust background information is something that Alina values, so I felt that reading these protocols and answering her questions about the project was an important first step.
While Alina was reading, I spent my time examining the results from our code and trying to determine where these unreasonable results (discovered last week) were coming from.
In the afternoon, I was able to determine that our unreasonable results were coming from an error with indexing the tree data from the spreadhseet. We made some changes in limiting the range that the code was accessing from the spreadsheet in order to try and imporve run-time, but this meant that the indexing of the tree data was now wrong. I caught this error through some Logger.log() statements. After finding and fixing this indexing error, fortunately, now our values pretty closely match the the values from last year with some minor discrepancies. Christina made some changes to make the rounding more accurate, so I suspect that these discrepancies come from a difference in rounding as well as iTree's updated tree species list, since the new species may have different values than the older version from last year.
Upon closer investigation it seems that although our values pretty closely match last year's values, they do not match the values that we are getting from iTree. I am not sure if this discrepancy is from user error on our part, or if these values are altogether incorrect. Further research tomorrow may be necessary.
During this time in this afternoon, in order to allow Alina to work with the code throughout the internship, I tried to think of the best way to introduce her to our code and Google App Script. Since she has no previous experience with computer science, I thought it might be best to set up a Codeacademy account for her in order to introduce her to Javascript and coding as a whole. However, I was afraid that this might feel too disconnected from our project and feel too much like an independent study in learning computer science instead of an intership. I offered to walk her through some of the code we had written so far, but I am not sure if this was too overwhelming since I know that this is a lot of information to take in for one day. I think that it might be best if I let her gain more familiarity with javscript at her own pace and answer any questions that arise. Then, when she feels that she is ready, I can walk her through our code so that it is not too overhwhelming. I recall feeling slightly overwhelmed with new information on my first day, so I can only imagine that it is overwhelming for her as well.
I also got an email from Nicole this afternoon saying that our default values look good, but that she would do further research and let us know if any further changes were needed. Furthermore, we noticed that for Individual Benefits, our code was returning all the same numbers even for different species of trees, but after some testing and online researching, we believe that we have fixed this problem.

Tomorrow, I hope to work more with Alina, and based on what I have learned today I think I will let her learn more at her own pace and offer my support as she needs it so that I am not overwhelming her with too much new and unfamiliar terminology/information. I think tomorrow we will also need to look into the discrepancy between our data and iTree's data. Although our data now matches last year's data, I still feel that this discrepancy is concerning, especially since we are fetching our data directly from iTree, meaning that the data should be the same. 
